[Docs-2.0] Update ELI5.md (#1049)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/using-wasabi/ELI5.md

## Receiving bitcoin

In order to receive bitcoin, you should generate an address in the `Receive` tab.
But first, you must label it with the names of any observers who know that this address is yours.
For example, if Alice pays you back for last nights pizza, then the label is `Alice`.
This is an important feature for you and the wallet to know which coin is from whom, and it will help with your privacy in the future.

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) for a tutorial on how to properly label your addresses and receive bitcoin.

## Sending bitcoin

1. Click the `Send` button (top right corner) at the main view.
2. Insert the address of the receiver.
3. Specify the amount the receiver should get and click `Continue`.
4. Make sure everything is filled in correctly in `Preview Transaction` window and click `Confirm`.
5. Enter the name of the person or company receiving the payment and click `Continue`.

> 6. Type in your password and click `Continue`.

Reviewer: This is not how send works now.

You will now see a pop-up window telling you that the transaction is broadcasted to the Bitcoin network.

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Send.md) for more details about sending bitcoin and the privacy nuances of it.

## Coinjoin with Wasabi

> If you don't like that your employer knows about where you spend your money, or that a merchant can find out how much money you have, then you should coinjoin your bitcoin, as this breaks link to its transaction history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't like that your employer knows where you spend your money, or that a merchant can find out how much money you have, then you should coinjoin your bitcoin, as this breaks link to its transaction history.
```

Although the coinjoin protocol is a bit complex, it is very easy to use in Wasabi.
By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining received UTXO's. 

> Once a coin achieves enough ambiguity, the corresponding amount will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a coin achieves enough anonymity, the corresponding amount will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".
```

> The wallet will also automatically coinjoin the change output that the user gets back after creating a transaction, but the coordinator fees will not be charged again.

Reviewer: This is confusing, it is like coordinator fees are free for any change transaction which is not the case.

## Receiving bitcoin

In order to receive bitcoin, you should generate an address in the `Receive` tab.
But first, you must label it with the names of any observers who know that this address is yours.
For example, if Alice pays you back for last nights pizza, then the label is `Alice`.
This is an important feature for you and the wallet to know which coin is from whom, and it will help with your privacy in the future.

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) for a tutorial on how to properly label your addresses and receive bitcoin.

## Sending bitcoin

> In Wasabi, you can use the `Send` button to give your bitcoin to someone else or send them to another wallet of yours.

Reviewer: IMO we should just remove this sentence.

```suggestion
```

1. Click the `Send` button (top right corner) at the main view.
2. Insert the address of the receiver.
3. Specify the amount the receiver should get and click `Continue`.
4. Make sure everything is filled in correctly in `Preview Transaction` window and click `Confirm`.
5. Enter the name of the person or company receiving the payment and click `Continue`.
6. Type in your password and click `Continue`.

> 7. You will now see a pop-up window telling you that the transaction is broadcasted to the Bitcoin network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You will now see a pop-up window telling you that the transaction is broadcasted to the Bitcoin network.
```

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Send.md) for more details about sending bitcoin and the privacy nuances of it.

## Coinjoin with Wasabi

> If you don't like that your employer knows about where you spend your money, or that a merchant can find out how much money you have, using Wasabi is the obvious choice.

Reviewer: Just remove this IMO.
```suggestion
```

Author: Lol. After +46 comments for changing ~25 lines I'm at a point that I could commit any suggestions just to avoid arguing but I do think explanation for 5y old should include these basic reasonings, even if the kid doesnt know UTXO model. 
That sentence makes one learn.

Reviewer: We could avoid the back and forth by keeping things very simple and precise and changing only what really needs to be changed.

So saying `using Wasabi is the obvious choice` can be misleading, because if you use Wasabi without coinjoining then that will not help you hide what you do with your money from your employer.

The previous sentence `then you should CoinJoin your bitcoin, as this breaks the transaction history` was more precise and clear.

Author: "breaks the transaction history" sounds wrong. Edited.

Although the coinjoin protocol is a bit complex, it is very easy to use in Wasabi.
By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining received UTXO's few minutes after the transaction is confirmed.
Once all or some of these funds are properly coinjoined, the corresponding amount will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Author: I think this suggestion is confusing. 
Nothing indicates that all coins might not get mixed in one round, making the user wonder why the amount in `private coins` doesnt move much.
I tried avoid using the word "hop" and to explain what it means in a way that a 5y old might understand.
Do you have strong feelings about this one?

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Reviewer: > Nothing indicates that all coins might not get mixed in one round, making the user wonder why the amount in `private coins` doesnt move much.

Nothing in your suggestion indicate that either.

> I tried avoid using the word "hop" and to explain what it means in a way that a 5y old might understand.

I don't think that a 5y old would understand what a UTXO or a confirmed transaction is.
Also the wallet does not automatically start coinjoining received UTXO's few minutes after the transaction is confirmed.

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Author: > Nothing in your suggestion indicate that either.

This part is supposed to do that. `Once all or some of these funds are properly coinjoined...`

> wallet does not automatically start coinjoining received UTXO's few minutes after the transaction is confirmed

How come?

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Reviewer: > These were supposed to do that. `Once all or some of these funds are properly coinjoined...` and `wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins`.

Nothing in those mention anything about rounds.

`Once all or some of these funds are properly coinjoined` for me this sentence talks about the received UTXO's that the wallet automatically started coinjoinig in the precedent sentence, so it does not talk about all the coins.

> > wallet does not automatically start coinjoining received UTXO's few minutes after the transaction is confirmed
> 
> How come?

There are many details when and how the wallet automatically starts coinjoining, but there is nothing that makes confirmed UTXOs wait few minutes.

> IMHO, your comment suggestion gives an impression that everything should get mixed in 1 coinjoin round.

My comment is not to explain how coinjoin works in detail.

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Reviewer: > To me your version gives an impression that everything happens in one coinjoin.

My opinion is just to say how coinjoin works in WW2 without any detail.

> Delay AutoCoinJoin [zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi#7122 (comment)](https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/issues/7122#issue-1115037094)

`The idea is to wait a few minutes after the wallet loaded and then start mixing.`

This is delay is after you open the wallet, it has nothing to do with confirmed UTXOs.

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Author: > Wait a while before the wallet starts mixing automatically.

From this and from general concept for delays, I would assume the delay is also for received coins. 
The reasoning is the same than when delaying after opening the wallet or when in `send` tab - user might want to do something with these coins so we should wait a moment. 
Not sure if that's how it's implemented though.
Ping @molnard ?

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Reviewer: Even if all what you are saying is correct we don't need to mention all of that, it is just details and nuance for this specific document.

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Author: Lets leave this one unresolved for a moment
https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/issues/7122#issuecomment-1033173396

> The wallet will then automatically coinjoin the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again.

Author: Meh, updated the section anyway. We can make an addition later about the delay if needed and if the delay concept is solid.

## Receiving bitcoin

In order to receive bitcoin, you should generate an address in the `Receive` tab.

> But first, you must label it with the names of any observers who know about this transaction.

Author: True. Didnt figure out how to explain it shortly. Will figure something out.

> But first, you must label it with the names of any observers who know about this transaction.

Reviewer: Why change something that was already correct and clear?

> But first, you must label it with the names of any observers who know about this transaction.

Author: Hmm. Not sure what was I thinking. Will change it back.

For example, if Alice pays you back for last nights pizza, then the label is `Alice`.
This is an important feature for the wallet to know which coin is from whom, and it will help with your privacy in the future.

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) for a tutorial on how to properly label your addresses and receive bitcoin.

## CoinJoin with Wasabi

If you don't like that your employer knows about where you spend your money, or that a merchant can find out how much money you have, using Wasabi is the obvious choice because, by default, it coinjoins your coins, thus breaking it's transaction history link.
Although the coinjoin protocol is a bit complex, it is very easy to use in Wasabi.

> By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 0.01 BTC, after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed. 

Author: I think it is correct because of the delays before auto mixing starts, which was just merged. 
I think we should explain shortly the Plebs dont pay and manual coinjoining  because there is 2 ways the wallet works by default.

> By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 0.01 BTC, after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed. 

Reviewer: > I think it is correct because of the delays before auto mixing starts, which was just merged.

It is after a few minutes that the wallet was loaded not "after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed."

> I think we should explain shortly the Plebs Dont Pay and "manual" coinjoining because there is 2 ways the wallet works by default.

This is just a brief explanation how the wallet works, there is no need for details.

> By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 0.01 BTC, after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed. 

Author: I was thinking about this from the first-time-user perspective but you are right in the case where user already has confirmed coins in the wallet.

> By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 0.01 BTC, after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed. 

Reviewer: What is the other default way? I am not sure I get what you mean.

We can simply say "By default, the wallet automatically coinjoins your bitcoin."

> By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 0.01 BTC, after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed. 

Author: > What is the other default way? I am not sure I get what you mean.

I mean, it either does automatically coinjoin users bitcoin or it doesnt, depending on how big UTXO's do they have.
It would be very confusing for user with less than 0.01 BTC if we said the wallet automatically coinjoins their coins even if it actually does not.

> We can simply say "By default, the wallet automatically coinjoins your bitcoin."

I agree we might not need to specify that starting the coinjoin takes a moment but I do think we have explain the limit.

> By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 0.01 BTC, after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed. 

Reviewer: This is just an ELI5 document, we shouldn't complicate things.
We should have documents where everything is explained in details.

> At this point, Wasabi will deduct  0,3% from that total UTXO balance as coordinator fee and the necessary Bitcoin network transaction fee. 

Reviewer: There is no need for these details.

If you look at the text that you are trying to edit, it didn't mention any detail, it just explained how to use coinjoin.

> Once all or some of these coins are mixed, they will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".

Author: Arent they under the main balance?
At least for me they are shown as "Private coins"

> Once all or some of these coins are mixed, they will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".

Reviewer: Do you see the coins themselves? or do you just see the total value of those coins?

> Once all or some of these coins are mixed, they will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".

Author: Talking about value of a coin might confuse newbies more by making them think of USD price or something but I changed it a bit so its hopefully clear now.

The wallet will then automatically mix the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again. Although, Bitcoin network transaction fees still apply.

> When the user only has UTXO's smaller than 0.01 BTC, the wallet will switch to _Plebs Don't Pay -mode_, which means it won't automatically coinjoin the users coins.

Author: Coordinator doesnt know links between users inputs so UTXO is correct IMO

Users will still be able to manually participate in coinjoins if they wish and they won't need to pay any coordinator fees.

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md) for a thorough analysis of coinjoin, details on the Wasabi implementation and best practices on how to use it properly.

## Sending bitcoin

In Wasabi, you can use the `Send` button to give your bitcoin to someone else or send them to another wallet of yours.
1. Click the `Send` button (top right corner) at the main view.
2. Insert the address of the receiver.
3. Specify the amount the receiver should get and click `Continue`.

> 4. At `Advanced options` you can set a custom transaction fee, otherwise the wallet automatically estimates it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. At `Advanced options` you can set a custom transaction fee rate, otherwise the wallet automatically estimates it.
```

> 6. Check if everything is filled in correctly and click `Confirm`.

Reviewer: We should mention at `Preview Transaction` here.

## Receiving bitcoin

In order to receive bitcoins, you should generate an address in the `Receive` tab.
But first, you must label it with the names of any observers who know about this transaction.
For example, if Alice pays you back for last nights pizza, then the label is `Alice`.
This is an important feature for the wallet to know which coin is from whom, and it will help with your privacy in the future.

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) for a tutorial on how to properly label your addresses and receive bitcoin.

## CoinJoin with Wasabi

> If you don't like that your employer knows about where you spend your money, or that a merchant can find out how much money you have, using Wasabi is the obvious choise because it by default coinjoins your coins, while braking the link with it's transaction history.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't like that your employer knows about where you spend your money, or that a merchant can find out how much money you have, using Wasabi is the obvious choice because, by default, it coinjoins your coins, thus breaking it's transaction history link.
```

Although the coinjoin protocol is a bit complex, it is very easy to use in Wasabi.

> By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 1M sat after few minutes have passed from the transaction being confirmed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the wallet automatically starts coinjoining UTXO's larger than 0.01 BTC, after a few minutes have passed since the transaction was confirmed. 
```
might be better to use BTC instead of sat because _sat_ nomination is not yet implemented.

> At this point, Wasabi will deduct  0,3% of coordinator fees from that total UTXO balance and the necessary Bitcoin networks coinjoin transaction fees. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point, Wasabi will deduct  0,3% from that total UTXO balance as coordinator fee and the necessary Bitcoin network transaction fee. 
```

Once all or some of these coins are mixed, they will show up in the software's main view as "private coins".

> The wallet will then automatically mix the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees won't be charged from the user again, althought basic Bitcoin networks coinjoin transaction fees do apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The wallet will then automatically mix the remaining coins or the change outputs that the user receives back after creating transactions, but the coordinator fees will not be charged from the user again. Although, Bitcoin network transaction fees still apply.
```

> In case the user has only smaller than 1M sat UTXO's, the wallet will which to Plebs Don't Pay -mode, which means it wont automatically coinjoin users coins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the user only has UTXO's smaller than 0.01 BTC, the wallet will switch to _Plebs Don't Pay -mode_, which means it won't automatically coinjoin the users coins.
```

Users will still be able to manually participate in coinjoins if they wish and they won't need to pay any coordinator fees.

> See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md) for a thorough analysis of coinjoin, details on the Wasabi implementation and best practices how to use it properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md) for a thorough analysis of coinjoin, details on the Wasabi implementation and best practices on how to use it properly.
```

## Sending bitcoin

> In Wasabi, you can use `Send` button to give your bitcoins to someone else, or send them to another wallet of yours.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Wasabi, you can use the `Send` button to give your bitcoin to someone else or send them to another wallet of yours.
```

> 1. Click `Send` button from top right corner of the main view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the `Send` button (top right corner) at the main view.
```

2. Insert the address of the receiver.
3. Specify the amount the receiver should get and click `Continue`.

> 4. From `Advanced options` you can set a custom transaction fee, otherwise the wallet automatically estimates it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. At `Advanced options` you can set a custom transaction fee, otherwise the wallet automatically estimates it.
```

> 6. Verify that everything is correct and click `Confirm` or adjust the transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Check if everything is filled in correctly and click `Confirm`.
```

> 7. Optionally you can click the shield image from the top right corner of the `Transaction Preview` to see suggestions on how to avoid generating a change output in this payment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Optionally, you can click the shield image (top right corner) at `Preview Transaction` to see suggestions on how to avoid generating a change output in this payment.
```

8. Enter the name of the person or company receiving the payment and click `Continue`.
9. Type in your password and click `Continue`.

> 10. You should see a pop-up window telling you that the transaction was broadcasted to the Bitcoin network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. You will now see a pop-up window telling you that the transaction is broadcasted to the Bitcoin network.
```

> See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Send.md) for more details on sending bitcoins and the privacy nuances of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Send.md) for more details about sending bitcoin and the privacy nuances of it.
```

But first, you must label it with the names of any observers who know that this address is yours.
For example, if Alice pays you back for last nights pizza, then the label is `Alice`.
This is an important feature for you and the wallet to know which coin is from whom, and it will help with your privacy in the future.
Once this newly generated address receives some coins, Wasabi Wallet will automatically hide this used address, so you don't reuse it by accident.

> In case you want to coinjoin these coins, click Play in the main views musicbox and choose a fitting profile setting for your wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you want to coinjoin these coins, click Play in the main view's musicbox and choose a fitting profile setting for your wallet.
```

See [this chapter](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) for a tutorial on how to properly label your addresses and receive bitcoin.

## Sending bitcoin

Sending process is different depending on the privacy of coins you have. Assuming you have enough private coins the sending process is the following:

1. Click the `Send` button (top right corner) at the main view.
2. Insert the address of the receiver and type in the amount the receiver should get, then click `Continue`.
3. Enter the name of the person or company receiving the payment and click `Continue`.
4. Make sure everything is filled in correctly in `Preview Transaction` window and click `Confirm`.

> 6. Type in your password and click `Continue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Type in your password and click `Continue`.
```
